This is a continuation of the google app engine tutorial
 
Google App Engine Tutorial for Java by, Lars Vogel

I needed a shopping cart, and its not elegant,
nor does it use a CMS, its just a bunch of servlets
that connect to a google database.

The model classes are: Orders, Groups, Users, Albums, Photos

the application is running at

https://ca-shellyphoto.appspot.com


Features

group privileges – access control lists associates users and groups, and each group has access to different products. Along with encryption this means the site is private.

Shopping cart has no time limit – a person can come and go over a number of different days and the order remains in tact.

System is platform neutral – since most of the work is done on the servers the customer can use any device with a web browser.

Administration of albums is integrated with picasa (but not limited too), so uploading of photos and photo resizing can be done in large batches.

Email notifications – confirmations and instructions sent using email.

Made using html, java servlets, jsp, xml, xslt, css, eclipse, google appengine which are all also platform neutral.

Google App Engine is a combination of middle-ware and server functionality. Servers are maintained by google and on all the time.

The servlets and jsp pages use the google code and java data object code to manage the data and provide authentication. Google bigtable is not a relational database but you can create relational features and query using GQL

There are 5 model classes - Users, Groups, Photos, Albums, and Orders. Then a utility class for data access, then the rest is just wiring – servlets for the database operations and jsp for the user interface.

Hosting so far is free, on the days that I tested the application the heaviest, I used less than 1 percent of my resource quota.

Its responsive. The shopping cart is like a pile of cards and you can add and remove them. I could do a lot here with the visuals, but choose to keep it simple.

Its easy to modify.

Its untested and needs testers. http://ca-shellyphoto.appspot.com 

xml capabilities are nice for debug - firefox and chrome do a good job with the output of xml.jsp - that page uses client side xsl, however its a restricted page only administrators have access too.